Now let's look at some basic concepts surrounding Kinesis Data Firehose.
We'll start by looking at records, data retention, and destination.
With records, or data records,
this will be what stores the information that goes into
Amazon Kinesis delivery streams and to the delivery firehose
that we're talking about right now.
Now,
there's a slight difference between what the data looks like between
Kinesis Data Streams and Kinesis Data Firehose.
With Kinesis Data Streams,
there'll be a bit more metadata surrounding the shards
that we're storing our data inside.
of.
With Firehose, however,
there'll be more of a focus on what the data actually looks
like without that unnecessary metadata.
In addition to data records differing from Kinesis Data Streams,
we also have a different way of dealing with data retention.
In Kinesis Firehose,
there's a 24‑hour maximum window on how long the data can
stay around inside of Kinesis Firehose.
That's if it fails to be delivered to a destination, for example.
Now, while Kinesis Data Streams have the concept of a consumer,
Kinesis Data Firehose doesn't.
It only has the concept of destinations,
and these are going to be where we want our data to end up after
it's done being put through a Kinesis Firehose.
Now in this case, some destinations might be Amazon S3,
Splunk, Elasticsearch, and many other destinations,
but we'll look at those later on and how those process the data.
Next, let's talk about the Kinesis Firehose buffer size and interval.
With the buffer size,
there is a certain amount of data that Kinesis Firehose can
buffer before it sends it all over to a destination or
processes it and then sends it over.
For Kinesis Firehose, it's between 1 MB and 128 MB,
depending on the destination that we're working with and the settings that
we've configured for our Kinesis Firehose delivery stream.
In addition to the buffer size is another
characteristic called a buffer interval.
Now,
both of these work in tandem to determine how frequently the data is
sent over from Kinesis Firehose to the destination.
With a buffer interval, though,
it's the amount of time that's waited before sending a
package of data over to its destination.
Now because the buffer interval is between 60 and 900 seconds,
you might be realizing that Firehose is less appropriate for
real‑time streaming data needs and is more appropriate when you're
able to wait between 60 and potentially a few more seconds for the
data to arrive in the destination.
That's not to say it can't arrive faster.
If it hits the buffer size really quickly,
it might indeed go over into its destination before the buffer interval happens.
But let's explain this better with a visualization.
Imagine we have our Kinesis delivery firehose right here,
and inside of it we have a 1 MB buffer size.
Now what'll happen is, data will come into the Kinesis Firehose,
and when that buffer is filled up and there's no more room for any
records in the buffer because the 1 MB limit has been hit,
the Kinesis Firehose will then send all that data over to its destination.
Now, this might be a bit of an oversimplification,
but this'll happen multiple times, and whenever the data hits the buffer,
it'll then be moved over to the destination.
Now this all by itself isn't everything that's happening
because we also have the buffer interval.
With a buffer interval,
we'll count down until we get to a certain time and
then the data will move over.
So if the buffer interval gets to the end,
when there's only two‑thirds of the data filled up,
for example, it'll still move everything over.
Even though it hasn't hit the buffer size, it has hit the buffer interval.
Now this is a little bit misleading,
because they'll both happen at the same time consistently.
So whenever the buffer interval runs out,
the data will be moved over,
or if the buffer interval hasn't been hit yet but the
data just happens to be filled up,
it'll still move over before the buffer interval is over.
So now that we understand the buffer size and interval,
as well as other concepts specifically related to Kinesis Data
Firehose and how they differ from Kinesis Data Streams,
let's look at some of the limitations of Kinesis Data Firehose.
First, there's a limit of 1000 to 5000 records per second,
and this is the soft limit that's implemented by region in AWS.
Now, this means that depending on the region,
if you just create a Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream,
you're going to be limited to these numbers unless
you request an increase from AWS.
With that being said,
you can definitely request lots of increases to the amount that Kinesis Data
Firehose can process. Now, in addition to this 1k to 5k soft limit of the
records per second, there's also a limit of 1000 to 2000 transactions per
second by region, but this is another soft limit.
So for example,
this might be 1000 put operations into a Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream.
Another common limit that people run into initially is a 1 MiB
to 5 MiB data ingestion per second limit.
Again, this is dependent on the region.
You'll have higher levels of capacity in certain AWS regions
by default, but for all these regions,
you can still request limit increases onto this as well.
Aside from these soft limits, a hard limit we'll have to look
at is a 1000 KiB max record size.
Now, this can't be extended or expanded upon. When you're
sending records into Kinesis Data Firehose,
you're going to need to make sure you stay within this 1000
KiB, or approximately 1 MB, max record size.
If you try and stuff more data in there,
it's simply going to fail, and you might need to reevaluate how
you're sending data into Kinesis Data Firehose.
One last thing to point out is that Kinesis Data Stream
producers don't have an ingestion limit.
So if you're sending data into Kinesis Data Streams and then forwarding that
along to Kinesis Data Firehose in order for it to deliver and potentially
process the data before delivery into a destination,
then you don't have to worry about the limits that I've just reported above.
So now that we understand basic concepts around Kinesis Data
Firehose, how it differs from Kinesis Data Streams,
how the buffer size and the intervals work, and some
of the limits that Firehose poses, let's take a closer look at transformations in Kinesis Data Firehose.